Organization-Centric Coordination

Labs

During this practical session, you will have to understand and design a coordination process based on
organization.

The use case remains the same: a multi-agent system is used for coordinating the building of a house. Now we
focus on the coordination process based on an organizational model. In this version, the construction is started,
i.e. the contracting phase is ended (a company is allocated to each task) and we consider the execution phase.

Part 1.
The organization of the building is described in the XML file src/org/house-os.xml.

1)

Three parts are described for specifying an organization in JaCaMo:

a.

b.

Structural specification: what are the roles and groups involved in the house building? What
are their links?
Functional specification: How the agents will build the house? What will be the order of the
building?

c. Normative specification: What are the rules of building an house?

2) Using an example of a specific task in the xml file, how this is processed for each specification? Use the

3)

line number in the xml file for the reference to the required part of the file for the chosen task.
Find in the *.asl files how organization model influences the behavior of the agents. For each, give the
instruction and explain the result.

4) Give the graphical representation of the structural and functional specification for building an house.
5) Discuss pro and cons of this organization approach for coordination.

Part 2.
Practical work 1

1)

2)

3)

Execute the use case (see agent-centric organization practical session) and analyze the result in the
“Organisation Inspector” or on the website (better solution). The address is in the execution trace “Moise
Http Server running on http://127.0.0.1:3271”. Look at the definition of the group.
The initial organization has to be changed. The electrical system must be installed in parallel of plumbing.
Exterior and interior paint must be done at end in parallel. Change the organization according to this
modification.
That is the crisis and there is a new budget restriction, the owner wants to do the interior paint task.
Change the organization according to this modification. Is it enough? Do modifications in order that the
house building is completed. What happens? Which modification do you have to do to satisfy the
modification of the owner?

Practical work 2

4) Propose your own organization for building. Propose an adapted new organization file and modify the

code accordingly. You can change order, rules, … Explain your solution.

Deliverable
A .zip file containing (i) a PDF document with your answer to the questions in the Part 1 and Part 2, (ii) a folder
named “practical-work-1” with the files changed from the “initial” code for addressing the Practical work 1, and
(iii) a folder named “practical-work-2” with the files changed from the “initial” code for addressing the Practical
work 2.

